{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green77\blue187;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs36\lang9 Summary:\fs22\par
Farmon is a monster collecting game inspired by games like pokemon, digimon, and paper mario. The game consists of 2 main modes: a farm mode and a battle mode.\par
In \b farm mode \b0 the player manages the farmon they have collected. The mode consists of individual "screens" or \b habitats\b0 , each containing some of the player's farmon and furniture. The player starts with one habitat and can earn additional habitats through gameplay. Farmon can be moved between habitats. Each habitats will have a limit to how many farmon it can contain. Farmon in habitats are controlled with a simple AI and can be assigned tasks.\par
Different habitats have different mechanics. For example, the player may starts with a basic meadow habitats but can earn a volcanic habitat which would have unique benefits for the farmon inside. Each habitat also gives the player access to different wildernesses.\par
\b Wildernesses \b0 are the player's main way of initiating battle mode and finding new farmon/loot. To use the wilderness, the farmon will assemble a party of farmon and send them offscreen. At this point, a bar will begin filling at the top of the screen. \cf1 If the wilderness is time based, farm mode needs to be engaging enough to always give the player something to do. Perhaps you earn money or resources over time which would always be building towards the player's next purchase. \cf0 Once the bar is full, a button will enable that allows the player to enter battle mode against wild farmon randomly chosen based on the habitat that player's farmon ventured from. Once the battle is complete, there is a  chance of finding loot, shopkeepers, etc based on the habitat.\par
\b Furniture \b0 can be earned through gameplay and placed in habitats. Furniture will serve different purposes. For example, an essential early furniture is farm plots. Each crop type will have a unique farm plot furniture. The farm plot will allow players to grow that crop over time by assigning a farmon to the furniture.\par
In \b battle mode\b0 , the player's squad of farmon square off against an enemy squad of farmon. The player can select thier farmon and assign enemy farmon to attack or freindly farmon to protect or the play can select a space on the map to tell thier farmon to defend there. Enemy farmon will have basic AI to determine their attack/protect/defense targets. Once all of the farmon in a squad have been reduced to 0 health, that squad loses. Upon winning a battle, the player's farmon are awarded experience, potentially leveling up or gaining new perks.\par
The 4 Main states a farmon can have are:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Idle - The farmon does nothing. Reservered for end of battle, no valid targets, etc.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Attacking - The farmon attack the assigned enemy farmon. When this farmon attacks, it's attacks will prioritize its assigned farmon.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Protecting - The farmon follows the assigned freindly farmon. When this farmon casts a support ability, it will prioritize its assigned farmon. This farmon still attacks but will prioritize the last farmon to attack its assigned farmon.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Defending (a location) - The farmon goes to a specific tile and stays there. Allows a player/ai to set up go to the edge of a ledge and shoot down at enemy farmon without following them off the ledge. While defending, farmon cannot dodge.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Battle mode has 2 subtypes: \b wilderness and tournament\b0 . Wilderness battles are started through habitats as described above. \cf1 The main way of starting tournaments has not been decided. \cf0 Tournaments battles are differentiated from wilderness battles in a few ways:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 The player has the opportunity to see the enemy squads that they will encounter in the tournament.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}In tournament mode, enemy squads are hand-picked to make interesting challenges for the player.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}There are gold, silver, and bronze prizes depending on how many enemy squads are in the tournament. The player doesn't know what the prizes are until they are earned. The farmon can earn items, farmon, and furniture.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Tournaments don't necessarily have to be tournaments in the traditional sense of the word. For example, an npc may say "I'll give you the beastiary for X if you can beat me!" before popping up a tournament screen.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Tournaments could be randomly generated. Since the player can see what they are going to be up against before starting the tournament, part of the puzzle could be creating a team that is flexible enought to survive the gauntlet.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Each farmon will have an individual level up and perk track. Upon leveling up, a farmon is given 1 random stat point, 1 stat point based on it's species, and one stat point for the player to assign manually. Upon hitting certain levels or milestones, perks will be awarded to the farmon. Sometimes, the player will be given the option to choose one of several perks. Farmon can also evolve upon leveling up or hitting milestones which always results in the farmon gaining a unique perk.\par
The player will have access to a \b beastiary\b0 , not unlike a pokedex. Having a beastiary page for a farmon will allow you to see what it does before you fight it in a tournament. There are 3 levels of information: \par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Level one is attained just by seeing the farmon and gives you access to basic information like name and description. \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Level 2 is attained by owning the farmon and gives you access to information like base stats and unlocked abilities. \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Level 3 is attained by owning the bestiary page for that farmon and gives access to all information including locked perks and perk/evolution requirements. \par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Level up grants 3 stats points:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 1 chosen randomly\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}1 chosen based on the farmon species\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}1 chosen by player\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
\fs36 Random ideas/to do list:\fs22\par
Summoning portals like in towerfall.\par
Death poof animation\par
Rounds - Saving and loading farmon.\par
Perks at different levels\par
Diagonal Pathing\par
local avoidance\par
fix melee\par
Destroy projectiles on collision with wall\par
Hire for assets?\par
Water tiles \par
New stat for reducing status effect duration?\par
Farmon whos level up stat depends on conditions (like item in inventory, other farmon in party, or where they are during level up).\par
To incentivize attacking different targets, you take less damage from the farmon you are targeting.\par
Objectives/powerups in the map disencentivize attacking a single unit.\par
Channeling units that would benefit from being protected.\par
\par
\fs36 Perk requirement ideas:\fs22\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Stat requirement\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Hitting a certain level and evolving into one of 2 farmon depending on which stat is higher.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Eat enough food (fatmon)\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Eat certain food (fire berry, ice-cream, etc).\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Survive enough battles\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Equip a certain item (consume it).\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Die enough times\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Leveling up while another specific farmon is in the party\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Taken to a specific location\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Leveling up while you have enough money in your wallet\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
\fs36 Item ideas - \fs22\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Targeting computer - Projectiles home in on enemies.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Stacked Deck- Random effects are more likely to be positive.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Water Helmet - This farmon behaves as if it is in water.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Clay Armor - 10 armor at the start of a battle\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs36 Perk ideas:\fs22\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Mind Over Matter - A percentage of Focus is converted to armor/health.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Concentration - While at full health, double focus.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Unstoppable - Negative effects last half as long.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Resourceful - Chance to not consume item. Scales with luck.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Deadeye - Perk unlocked by having high agility. Your attacks cannot be dodged.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Jump 1/2\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Flight\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}High Ground - The higher your farmon is compared to the oppenent, the more damage it does.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Pure Skill - Crit damage scales with agililty.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Substitution Jutsu - Learned by bringing certain farmon to the ninja dojo. Ninja farmon, On dodge, attack back.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Initiative - First attack in battle is always a crit.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Light - Farmon gives off light to buff nearby farmon and counter darkness.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Nocturnal 1 - This farmon is unaffected by darkness.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Nocturnal 2 - This farmon gains a buff in darkness.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Photosynthesis - Gain a buff in the presence of light.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Double or Something - At the start of the match, either double or halve your luck.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Ring of fire - up to 3 fireballs spin around the farmon. The fireballs spawn one at a time and are consumed upon hitting an enemy (pierce?) Level up to increase number of fireballs or tie number of fireballs to focus?\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Bully - chance on attack to steal enemy item\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Adaptability - Become the element of the environment you are in.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Shade - ability makes the whole map dark.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Mass - increase gravity of whole map. Prevent effects of flight and Jump.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Tsunami - Flood the stage at the start of the round.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Anti-Air - Damaging a flying enemy in the air deals bonus damage and grounds them.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Standard - Give all nearby friendly farmon 5/10/15% of your stats.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Fervor - Gain a large, decaying burst of speed upon defeating a farmon.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Static - Build up charges by moving around. Charges arc to nearby enemies.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Protective Shell - start the battle with 10 armor\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Momentum - Speed bonus as long as you have armor. Scales with arm or?\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Sanctuary - Gain a powerful decaying shield at the start of the round.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Malleable - All of this farmon's stats can be picked upon leveling up.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Big - +20% health and size.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Tail Wind - \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Engulf - eat a farmon that is smaller than you (incentivises min maxing size)\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Compact - More damage the smaller you are.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Stout - More defense the smaller you are.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Dwarf - Grit decreases the size of this farmon.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Spiky Body - Gain resistance to melee attacks and deal damage to melee attackers. Think pokeys or spike goombas from PM.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Watchmon - Gain increased attack range while defending.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Defender - Gain damage reduction while defending.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Some kind of perk that pulls enemies together.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Cloud9 - Any farmon protecting this farmon can fly.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf2\b Solution to evolving farmon losing references:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 There will be a farmon map that maps an integer ID to a farmon instance\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}When something wants to hold a reference to a farmon, it will do so by saving the key of that farmon.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}When somethings wants to retrieve the reference, it will use the saved key to get the dictionary value (farmon instance)\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}When a farmon evolves, it will replace the value of its key with the newly evolved farmon reference to update all existing references to the old farmon.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
Working on splitting statemachine into 3 separate state machines:\par
ControlStateMachine:\par
This state machine handles the farmon's high level state.\par
States:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 SpawnState\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}DieState\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}DeadState\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}HitStunState\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}DoNothingState - this state is reserved for times when another arbitrary script is controlling this object. For example, if an enemy farmon grabbed this farmon, this farmon would enter the DoNothingState.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}MainState - this state ticks the FarmonStateMachine and the NavigationStateMachine\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
FarmonStateMachine:\par
This state machine contains the farmon's current objective:\par
States:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 IdleState - Wander around with no objective.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}AttackState - The farmon is given a target farmon upon entering the AttackState. Move into attack range of the target farmon. If we are in attack range and the attack is not ready yet, choose random spots around the enemy to move to.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}DefendState - The farmon is given a target location to defend up entering the DefendState. The farmon moves to the defend location and waits. If an enemy farmon enters a certain radius around the target location (taking into consideration this farmon's attack range), the defending farmon will attack the enemy farmon.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}ProtectState - The farmon is given a target freindly farmon upon entering the ProtectState. The farmon closely follows the farmon it is protecting and if an enemy farmon enters a certain radius around the target farmon (taking into consideration this farmon's attack range),  the protecting farmon will attack the enemy farmon. If this farmon has any friendly abilities, they will prioritize the protected farmon.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 NavigationStateMachine:\par
This state machine contains different high-level navigation states:\par
States:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 WanderState - Move in a random pattern.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}MoveAroundAttackTarget - Move to a random location around the target farmon, then choose a new random location around the target farmon.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}NavigateToFarmon - Pathfind to a farmon.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
}
 